In this lecture, we are going to kick things off by adding a component for controlling the query for
posts.
Performing a query for posts can be complicated.
WordPress does it all the time.
We can leverage WordPress components to help us build our block.
Let me show you an example in my editor.
I've added the query loop.
BLOCK We're already familiar with this.
BLOCK On the sidebar, we are presented with dozens of options for modifying the query.
Believe it or not, most of these options are handled by a single component.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a component called query controls.
The queries controls component renders a list of input fields for modifying a post.
However, it does not create the query.
It simply adds fields to the sidebar.
For modifying the query, you can go through the documentation for everything offered by this component.
It's one of the most powerful components offered by WordPress.
I think this component will be helpful.
It's easier to use this component over creating dozens of controls for modifying different options.
Let's try implementing this component in our block.
In your editor, open the index JS file.
From the WordPress slash components package import the query controls components.
Next, let's scroll to the panel body component.
Inside this component, insert the query controls component.
The query controls component can render various input fields by default.
They're hidden from the client.
We must add specific properties to force the appearance of specific fields for this block.
We are going to add fields for sending the number of posts to display and the categories to filter the
posts by.
Let's start with modifying the number of posts on this component.
We can set the initial post count by adding the number of items property.
The value for this property will be the count attributes.
The accounts attribute has been structured ahead of time.
You do not need to manually grab this attribute.
Let's move on to the other properties.
The post count should be modifiable.
At the same time, we don't want to allow clients to grab hundreds of posts.
This type of request can be a burden on a server to keep users safe.
Let's restrict the post counts to a specific range.
The range can be configured by adding two properties called Min and Max.
Let's set these properties to one and ten respectively.
This block will be able to display between 1 to 10 posts.
There's one more property that we will add to the component.
It's called on number of items change.
This property is an event that gets emitted when the post count is modified.
Let's use this events to update the count attributes passing an arrow function to handle the event.
We are provided the new value as an argument.
I'm going to refer to the argument as counts.
Inside the function.
Let's call the set attributes function to update the count attribute.
So far the component is very similar to other control components.
We can set the initial value, restrict the range and handle updates.
Let's try testing our block in the browser.
Refresh the page.
Next, add the popular recipes block to the page.
If we look at the sidebar, the query controls component has rendered a slider for changing the post
count of the block.
It's fully functional.
The post count can be changed.
So far, the query controls component does not seem very special.
In our case, we're using the bare minimum.
Let's start exploring the true power of this component in the next lecture.